# Input Directory

## Directories

The following are the main directories of the Input files.

### BaseYearData

This folder holds the static data describing the zone system and the base year conditions that will be scaled in order to do forecasting.

#### ZoneSystem.csv

This file contains all of the zones in the zone system with the following columns in order.

*  TAZ
   *  The zone number.
*  

### Outputs

### Runtime

### Scripts

This directory contains the SQL code that will operate on the MySQL database.  If you have setup your MySQL instance with a database
not named "TorontoPopSynIII" you will need to update all of the scripts to refer to that database instead.

Replace:

> USE TorontoPopSynIII;

to

> USE [YourDatabaseName];

#### ControlsTableCreation.sql

This file contains the scripts to create the tables in the MySQL database for the tables that hold the control totals for MAZ, TAZ, and Meta level controls. The control files
that are read into these tables are generated by PopSynIIIAutomation at the start of the run.


#### ControlsTableProcessing.sql

Double check that this file is still required.


#### GTAModelTransform.sql

Double check that this file is still required.


#### Outputs.sql

Double check that this file is still required.


#### PUMFTabelCreation.sql

This script creates the tables that are used to hold the original household and persons records before they have started to be processed.


#### PUMFTableProcessing.sql

This script takes the original households and persons and generates new tables that will be operated upon during the algorithm.
