# GTAModel V4.0.2 Input Directory

> [!Tip]
> In GTAModel V4.0.2 input data is organized into the _Scenario folders_ with the following structure,
> _Scenario-Directory_/_RunYear_/_ScenarioName_.
> The scenario names are not required to be the same between the different scenario folders.

#### Activity Distributions

This directory contains the information on how to generate activity episodes.  Between runs these files should not change unless it has been recalibrated.

#### Base Year Matrix

Files contained in this directory are used for estimation and validation purposes.

The folder `AccessStationInitialCapacities` contains a CSV vector for each time period with the ratio of the number of parking
spots for each station that are occupied.

#### Estimation

This directory contains the parameters used to estimate the different models contained within GTAModel.

#### Estimation Result

This directory contains the results of the estimation process for GTAModel V4.  
The mode choice algorithm’s parameters are read in from this directory.  
For re-calibration you can edit the mode choice’s values, please contact TMG before doing this though for guidance.

> [!NOTE]
> In GTAModel V4.0 the mode choice estimation results are used in order to setup the parameters for the run.  Starting in
> GTAModel V4.1 the parameters are directly integrated into the model system.

#### Scenario-Employment

* EmpOccRates: A folder containing a CSV file for each employment category rate of jobs belonging to the category.
* ExternalRates: A folder containing a CSV file for each employment category with the rate of jobs belonging to external workers.
* WaHRates: A folder containing a CSV file for each employment category with the rate of jobs belonging to workers who work from home.
* TotalEmploymentByZone.csv: This file contains a CSV mapping each zone to the total employment contained within.

> [!NOTE]
> All rates in the default GTAModel V4.0.2 are computed at the planning district level. Some versions of the model have
> changed this to work at the zonal level.

#### Scenario-Network

Each year contains a file called BaseNetwork.nwp containing the master network.  Each scenario then contains a set of files
that are used for generating the time period networks.  More information can be found [here](../file_formats/network_scenario_format.md) describing their format.

#### Scenario-Population

* HouseholdData:
  * Households.csv: 
  * Persons.csv: 
* WorkerCategories: For each occupation and employment category a CSV file is exists containing with three columns:
Zone, WorkerCategory, and the ratio of that worker category for the given zone.
* ZonalResidence: For each occupation and employment category a CSV exists containing two columns:
Zone, and the number of workers in that zone that work within the GTHA and the number of non-roaming workers of that
category living in that zone.
* ZoneData: 
  * Zones.csv: Contains information related to each zone in the zone system.  A detailed description of the format can be found [here](../file_formats/zones_file_format.md).
  * Zones.zfc: A binary cached version of the Zones.csv.  Starting in XTMF1.5 this file is no longer created during the model run.
  * Regions.csv: A CSV file with two columns: (Zone, Region).  Each zone can only belong to a single region.  External zones
    should be absent or given a region number of 0.

#### Scenario-Stations

* StationCapacity.csv: A CSV file with the columns in the order of Zone and Capacity for each station zone.

#### Scenario-Transit Fares

* Fare Rules.xml: An XML file in the [fare schema format](../file_formats/fare_schema_file_specification.md) describing the fare policies
    when initially boarding or transferring between transit agencies.
* York_Region_Zone: A folder containing a shapefile that shows the different fare zones for York Region.

#### School

* BaseYearStudentLinkages-Elementry.csv: A square CSV matrix of home zone to school zone linkages from TTS
        for the elementary school aged students.
* BaseYearStudentLinkages-Highschool.csv: A square CSV matrix of home zone to school zone linkages from TTS
        for the highschool aged students.
* BaseYearStudentLinkages-PostSecondary.csv: A square CSV matrix of home zone to school zone linkages from TTS
        for the post secondary aged students.
* ElementaryStudentsByZone2011.csv: A CSV vector containing the number of students from TTS by home zone.
* HighschoolStudentsByZone2011.csv: A CSV vector containing the number of students from TTS by home zone.
* UniversityStudentsByZone2011.csv: A CSV vector containing the number of students from TTS by home zone.

#### Validation

* RoadCounts
  * Screenline Mapping 2.csv: This file contains a mapping of screenline names to the station numbers within
    TMG's base year network.  This file is used in the model system.
  * Screenline Mapping.csv: This file contains the same mapping of screenline names to the station numbers
    with the addition of local screenline names and local station ids.
 