# GTAModel V4.2 Input Directory

> [!Tip]
> In GTAModel V4.2 input data is organized into the _Scenario folders_ with the following structure,
> _Scenario-Directory_/_RunYear_/_ScenarioName_.
> The scenario names are not required to be the same between the different scenario folders.

## Activity Distributions

This directory contains the information on how to generate activity episodes.  Between runs these files should not change unless it has been recalibrated.

## Base Year Matrix

Files contained in this directory are used for estimation, validation, and bootstrapping purposes.

### AccessStationInitialCapacities

The folder `AccessStationInitialCapacities` contains a CSV vector for each time period with the ratio of the number of parking
spots for each station that are occupied.

### AutoDemand

 This folder contains the demand fed into the initial road assignments.  Contained are time period demand matrices for AutoPassenger,
 and light / medium / heavy trucks with the format below replacing XX with the time period 2 letter code.
   
 * XXAutoMatrix.mtx
 * XXHeavyMatrix.mtx
 * XXLightMatrix.mtx
 * XXMediumMatrix.mtx

### External

This folder provides the data used for generating demand coming from outside of the study area.  Contained are two files:

* 2016ExternalPopulation.csv
* 2016ExternalTrips.csv

`2016ExternalPopulation.csv` contains a base year population vector that will be used as the base year while scaling the trips.
This is a CSV file with two columns, ZoneNumber, and Population.

`2016ExternalTrips.csv` contains the trip records with the following columns:

* PersonUID
    * A unique number used for ensuring that drive-access-transit uses the same station for the return trip.
* ExpansionFactor
* HouseholdZone
* OriginZone
* DestinationZone
* StartTime
    * Times are stored in the DMG time format, HHMM where the first digit of the hour is optional.
* Mode
    * D, M, O : Auto
    * X : Carpool
    * W : Walk
    * C : Bicylce
    * T : WAT
    * A : DAT
    * P : Passenger

### PoRPoW (Estimation + Validation)

In the subfolder `Linkages` there are csv files containing job linkages from TTS with the columns (HomeZone,EmplyomentZone,Linkages):

* All.csv
* MF.csv
* GP.csv
* MF.csv
* MP.csv
* PF.csv
* PP.csv
* SF.csv
* SP.csv

### TransitDemand

This folder contains the base year transit demand used for bootstrapping the model.

* AMTransit.mtx
* MDTransit.mtx
* PMTransit.mtx
* EVTransit.mtx

## Estimation (Optional)

This directory contains the parameters used to estimate the different models contained within GTAModel.

## Estimation Result (Optional)

This directory contains the results of the estimation process for GTAModel V4.2.  The files contained
within are not used in the model system.

## Scenario-Employment

* EmpOccRates: A folder containing a CSV file for each employment category rate of jobs belonging to the category.
* ExternalRates: A folder containing a CSV file for each employment category with the rate of jobs belonging to external workers.
* WaHRates: A folder containing a CSV file for each employment category with the rate of jobs belonging to workers who work from home.
* TotalEmploymentByZone.csv: This file contains a CSV mapping each zone to the total employment contained within.

> [!NOTE]
> All rates in the default GTAModel V4.2 are computed at the zonal level.

## Scenario-Network

Each year contains a file called BaseNetwork.nwp containing the master network.  Each scenario then contains a set of files
that are used for generating the time period networks.  More information can be found [here](../file_formats/network_scenario_format.md) describing their format.
Please note that starting in GTAModel V4.2 two new files are required. `ParkingCosts.csv` and `shortest_path.mtx`.

## Scenario-Parking

Each year contains scenario directories containing a file called ParkingCosts.csv.  In this version of GTAModel the parking
costs have been modified to include more control over the price of parking by breaking the day into two time period, day and night.
Each zone can configure when these time periods start and end, their hourly cost, and maximum price for the time period.  Additionally
you can also specify the whole-day maximum.  The times are given in "minutes-from-midnight" format.  

The columns are in the following order:
* Zone Number
* Start of Daytime (minutes from midnight)
* Day time hourly rate
* Day time maximum
* Night time start (minutes from midnight)
* Night time hourly rate
* Night time maximum
* Full Day Maximum


## Scenario-Population

* HouseholdData:
  * Households.csv: 
  * Persons.csv: 
* ZonalResidence: For each occupation and employment category a CSV exists containing two columns:
Zone, and the number of workers in that zone that work within the GTHA and the number of non-roaming workers of that
category living in that zone.
* ZoneData: 
  * IntrazonalDistance.csv: A CSV File in the format (Zone, Distance) describing the expected distance in metres that a trip will take.  This is usually done with \\( \frac{2\sqrt{Area}}{6} \\).
  * PDs.csv: A CSV file in the format (Zone, PD) describing the planning district that each zone belongs in.  Zones not specified will be assigned to PD 0. 
  * Population.csv: A CSV file in the format (Zone, Population) describing the population for each zone.  Zones that are not defined will get a population of zero.
  * Regions.csv: A CSV file with two columns: (Zone, Region).  Each zone can only belong to a single region.  External zones
    should be absent or given a region number of 0.

## Scenario-Stations

* StationCapacity.csv: A CSV file with the columns in the order of Zone and Capacity for each station zone.

## Scenario-Transit Fares

* Fare Rules.xml: An XML file in the [fare schema format](../file_formats/fare_schema_file_specification.md) describing the fare policies
    when initially boarding or transferring between transit agencies.
* York_Region_Zone: A folder containing a shapefile that shows the different fare zones for York Region.

## Scenario-School

* ElementaryStudents.csv: A CSV vector containing the number of students from TTS by home zone.
* ElementaryStudentsLinkages.csv: A square CSV matrix of home zone to school zone linkages from TTS
        for the elementary school aged students.
* HighschoolStudents.csv: A CSV vector containing the number of students from TTS by home zone.
* HighschoolStudentsLinkages.csv: A square CSV matrix of home zone to school zone linkages from TTS
        for the highschool aged students.
* PostSecondaryStudents.csv: A CSV vector containing the number of students from TTS by home zone.
* PostSecondaryStudentsLinkages.csv: A square CSV matrix of home zone to school zone linkages from TTS
        for the post secondary aged students.

## Validation

* RoadCounts
  * Screenline Mapping 2.csv: This file contains a mapping of screenline names to the station numbers within
    TMG's base year network.  This file is used in the model system.
  * Screenline Mapping.csv: This file contains the same mapping of screenline names to the station numbers
    with the addition of local screenline names and local station ids.

