# C-19

This scenario folder is only available for C-19 variant versions of GTAModel.  To learn more
about C-19 variants of GTAModel you can view the documentation [here](../../model_design/c-19.md).

> [!Tip]
> In GTAModel V4 input data is organized into the _Scenario folders_ with the following structure,
> _Scenario-Directory_/_RunYear_/_ScenarioName_.

## Contained Files

The C-19 scenario inputs contain the probabilities for an activity of each associated type to remain within a person's schedule.
Each of these files are the CSV format containing the columns `Zone` and `Rate`,
ordered respectively. For work activities the Zone represents the person's place of work, for other activities it represents their home zone.
For a description of the different activity types in GTAModel please refer to the [Scheduler's documentation](../../model_design/scheduler.md#activity-types).
Additionally, for the Primary Work activity episodes, the survival rates are divided by the person's occupation category.
Below are the following file names required for each scenario.

  * PrimaryProfessionalWork.csv
  * PrimaryGeneralWork.csv
  * PrimarySalesWork.csv
  * PrimaryManufacturingWork.csv
  * SecondaryWork.csv
  * WorkBasedBusiness.csv
  * School.csv
  * Other.csv
  * Market.csv

## Creating a New Scenario

Creating a new C-19 scenario can be done by creating the above rate files, ensuring that you have an entry for each non-external / non-station TAZ, and set the rate to one.
This will give you the starting point where all activities are kept.  From here the alteration of the files will depend on your policy.  For instance, you might want to
test the case where everything has gone back to business-as-usual with the exception that all students are now learning online.  To do this you would set the `School.csv` rates
all to zero.
